# Character_Recognition

It is true that handwriting has evolved as an excellent means of communication as well as documentation for thousands of years.  But, due to different writing patterns based on the writing skills followed by humans, it has been always difficult for a machine to identify the characters correctly. The process of the handwritten character recognition system recognizes the characters present in the input image. In recent years, much significant research work has been done by the researchers due to its wide applicability in different application areas such as automation of postal office with code number recognition on an envelope, use of optical character recognition (OCR) in digital libraries, banking automation, automatic license plate recognition, in forensic investigation of digital evidence etc. In spite of several recognition techniques, still, there is always a need to develop an advanced technique which can overcome the limitations of the existing algorithms in terms of the result's accuracy. As the handwritten characters have vast writing patterns i.e., the same character can be written by different persons with different styles. So, recognizing such characters with desired recognition rate is a major concern. In recent years, Deep Learning techniques have gained a wide acceptance in recognizing the digits. A modified Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) has been proposed for digit recognition with high accuracy and better response rate. The performance of the proposed algorithms has been compared with the existing modern algorithms. The proposed algorithms have gained training and testing accuracy as 99.14% and 98.86% respectively.
